Nouvelle artificial intelligence (AI) is an approach to artificial intelligence pioneered in the 1980s by Rodney Brooks, who was then part of MIT artificial intelligence laboratory.[1] Nouvelle AI differs from classical AI by aiming to produce robots with intelligence levels similar to insects. Researchers believe that intelligence can emerge organically from simple behaviors as these intelligences interacted with the "real world," instead of using the constructed worlds which symbolic AIs typically needed to have programmed into them.[2] The differences between nouvelle AI and symbolic AI are apparent in early robots Shakey and Freddy. These robots contained an internal model (or "representation") of their micro-worlds consisting of symbolic descriptions. As a result, this structure of symbols had to be renewed as the robot moved or the world changed. Shakey's planning programs assessed the program structure and broke it down into the necessary steps to complete the desired action. This level of computation required a large amount time to process, so Shakey typically performed its tasks very slowly. Symbolic AI researchers had long been plagued by the problem of updating, searching, and otherwise manipulating the symbolic worlds inside their AIs. A nouvelle system refers continuously to its sensors rather than to an internal model of the world. It processes the external world information it needs from the senses when it is required. As Brooks puts it, "the world is its own best model--always exactly up to date and complete in every detail." A central idea of nouvelle AI is that simple behaviors combine to form more complex behaviors over time. For example, simple behaviors can include elements like "move forward" and "avoid obstacles." A robot using nouvelle AI with simple behaviors like collision avoidance and moving toward a moving object could possibly come together to produce a more complex behavior like chasing a moving object. [3][4][1] The frame problem describes an issue with using first-order logic (FOL) to express facts about a robot in the world. Representing the state of a robot with traditional FOL requires the use of many axioms (symbolic language) to imply that things about an environment that do not change arbitrarily. Nouvelle AI seeks to sidestep the frame problem by dispensing with filling the AI or robot with volumes of symbolic language and instead letting more complex behaviors emerge by combining simpler behavioral elements. [5] The goal of traditional AI was to build intelligences without bodies, which would only have been able to interact with the world via keyboard, screen, or printer. However, nouvelle AI attempts to build embodied intelligence situated in the real world. Brooks quotes approvingly from the brief sketches that Turing gave in 1948 and 1950 of the "situated" approach. Turing wrote of equipping a machine "with the best sense organs that money can buy" and teaching it "to understand and speak English" by a process that would "follow the normal teaching of a child." This approach was contrasted to the others where they focused on abstract activities such as playing chess. Brooks focused on building robots that acted like simple insects while simultaneously working to remove some traditional AI characteristics. He created insect-like robots called [6] Allen and Herbert. Brooks's insectoid robots contained no internal models of the world. Herbert, for example, discarded a high volume of the information received from its sensors and never stored information for more than two seconds. Allen, named after Allen Newell[why?], had a ring of twelve ultrasonic sonars as its primary sensors and three independent behavior-producing modules. These modules were programmed to avoid both stationary and moving objects. With only this module activated, Allen stayed in the middle of a room until an object approached and then it ran away while avoiding obstacles in its way. Herbert, named after Herbert A. Simon[why?], used infrared sensors to avoid obstacles and a laser system to collect 3D data over a distance of about 12 feet. Herbert also carried a number of simple sensors in its "hand." The robot's testing ground was the real world environment of the busy offices and workspaces of the MIT AI lab where it searched for empty soda cans and carried them away, a seemingly goal-oriented activity that emerged as a result of 15 simple behavior units combining together. As a parallel, Simon noted that an ant's complicated path is due to the structure of its environment rather than the depth of its thought processes. Other robots by Brooks' team were Genghis and Squirt.[7] Genghis had six legs and was able to walk over rough terrain and follow a human. Squirt's behavior modules had it stay in dark corners until it heard a noise, then it would begin to follow the source of the noise. Brooks agreed that the level of nouvelle AI had come near the complexity of a real insect, which raised a question about whether or not insect level-behavior was and is a reasonable goal for nouvelle AI? Brooks' own recent work has taken the opposite direction to that proposed by Von Neumann in the quotations "theorists who select the human nervous system as their model are unrealistically picking 'the most complicated object under the sun,' and that there is little advantage in selecting instead the ant, since any nervous system at all exhibits exceptional complexity."[8] In the 1990s, Brooks decided to pursue the goal of human-level intelligence and, with Lynn Andrea Stein, built a humanoid robot called Cog. Cog is a robot with an extensive collection of sensors, a face, and arms (among other features) that allow it to interact with the world and gather information and experience so as to assemble intelligence organically in the manner described above by Turing. The team believed that Cog would be able to learn and able to find a correlation between the sensory information it received and its actions, and to learn common sense knowledge on its own. As of 2003, all development of the project had ceased.
The lead vocalist in popular music is typically the member of a group or band whose voice is the most prominent melody in a performance where multiple voices may be heard.[1] The lead singer sets their voice against the accompaniment parts of the ensemble as the dominant sound.[1] In vocal group performances, notably in soul and gospel music, and early rock and roll, the lead singer takes the main vocal melody, with a chorus or harmony vocals provided by other band members as backing vocalists. Lead vocalists typically incorporate some movement or gestures into their performance, and some may participate in dance routines during the show, particularly in pop music. Some lead vocalists also play an instrument during the show, either in an accompaniment role (such as strumming a guitar part), or playing a lead instrument/instrumental solo role when they are not singing (as in the case of lead singer-guitar virtuoso Jimi Hendrix). The lead singer also typically guides the vocal ensemble and band with visual cues to indicate changes of tempo or dynamics, stops or pauses, and the starts of new sections (unless there is also a conductor onstage, as with a big band or unless an instrumentalist bandleader is providing this role). The lead vocalist also typically speaks to the audience between songs, to give information about the songs (such as who wrote them or why it was chosen), introduce the band members, and develop a rapport with the audience. The lead vocalist may also play a leadership role in rehearsals, unless there is a bandleader who takes on this role. If the lead singer is a singer-songwriter, she or he may write some or all of the lyrics or create entire songs (including chords and melodies). Examples of a lead vocalist in rock music are Freddie Mercury from Queen and Mick Jagger from the Rolling Stones. Similarly in soul music, Smokey Robinson was the lead singer of The Miracles. There may be two or more lead vocalists in a band who rotate singing lead between songs or within songs, such as with The Beatles or Fleetwood Mac, or two or more vocalists may share lead vocals on the same lines, as was often the case with ABBA. The lead vocalist may also be called the main vocalist, lead vocals, or lead singer. Especially in rock music, the lead singer or solo singer is often the front man[2] or front woman, who may also play one or more instruments and is often seen as the leader or spokesman of the band by the public. It is uncertain when the term "lead vocals" was first used, but it may have emerged in the late 1930s, when rich vocal interplay with multiple voices where one or more voices may dominate began to impact on North American popular music, which was previously dominated by solo vocals.[1] The practice of using a lead singer in vocal groups, however, has a longer history: an early form is the "call and response" found in work songs and spirituals sung by African-American slaves. Songs of the late nineteenth century frequently used a leading solo voice (or "call"), followed by a choral response by other singers. As the style developed through early commercial recordings and performances in the early 20th century, the role of the lead vocalist became more established, although popular groups of the 1930s and 1940s such as the Ink Spots and the Mills Brothers generally used different lead singers on different songs rather than keeping the same lead singer throughout. By the 1950s, singers such as Sam Cooke (with the Soul Stirrers) and Clyde McPhatter (with the Drifters) took on more clearly defined roles as lead singers, and by the end of the decade credited group names often changed to reflect the leading roles of the main vocalists, with examples such as Frankie Lymon & the Teenagers and Dion & the Belmonts.[3] Academic David Horn has written: The influence of US rhythm and blues recordings may well be a crucial one in the assimilation of the format of lead singer plus backing group into the guitar-based British 'beat' groups of the 1960s, and in US groups such as The Beach Boys. From these various points – including Motown – it went on to become a standard device in much rock and pop music. In some bands – most famously, The Beatles – the role of lead singer alternated (in this case, principally between two performers), while in others – for example, Herman's Hermits – one lead singer dominated.[3]
Kenan Thompson (/ˈkiːnən/; born May 10, 1978)[1] is an American actor and comedian. He has been a cast member of the NBC sketch comedy series Saturday Night Live since 2003, making him the longest-tenured cast member in the show's history.[2] He was also the first regular cast member born after the show's premiere in 1975. He currently stars on the NBC sitcom Kenan, which premiered in 2021. Thompson began his acting career in the early 1990s, and was an original cast member of Nickelodeon's sketch comedy series All That. In this time, he often collaborated with All That costar Kel Mitchell. In 1996, they began starring in their own sitcom Kenan & Kel (1996–2000). Thompson also had roles in The Mighty Ducks franchise, Good Burger, and the title character in the 2004 film Fat Albert. He has been nominated four times for a Primetime Emmy Award for his work on SNL, winning once.[3] He is ranked at No. 88 on VH1's 100 Greatest Teen Stars. Thompson was born on May 10, 1978 in Compton, California. His parents are Fletcher and Elizabeth Ann Thompson. He has two siblings, an older brother and a younger sister. His family moved to Atlanta, Georgia when he was 9 months old.[4] Thompson's mother enrolled him in acting classes at age five. His first role as Toto in a church production of The Wiz had no lines.[2] He continued acting throughout his youth, appearing in school plays such as The Gingerbread Duck.[5] He auditioned for a theater company, The Youth Ensemble of Atlanta (YEA).[6] As a child he was a fan of The Price Is Right which he referred to as "my first love" and "very joyful viewing", which had an effect on his future acting style.[7] One of Thompson's earliest roles was as an entertainment reporter for CNN's "Real News for Kids".[8] He went on to star in the original run of All That (where he got replaced by Gabriel Iglesias), with such characters as Principal Pimpell, Miss Piddlin, Pierre Escargot, and Superdude. He starred as Kenan Rockmore on Nickelodeon's Kenan & Kel.[8] While attending Tri-Cities High School, a Visual and Performing Arts Magnet School in East Point, Georgia, he began filming his first movie, D2: The Mighty Ducks. Thompson has starred in several films including Good Burger, based on the All That sketch of the same title, and Fat Albert, in which he played the title character. He has also had supporting roles in the movies Heavyweights, D2: The Mighty Ducks, D3: The Mighty Ducks, Love Don't Cost a Thing, Barbershop 2: Back in Business, My Boss's Daughter, and Snakes on a Plane. In 2009, Thompson was a regular voice actor in the Fox cartoon series Sit Down, Shut Up, portraying Sue Sezno, who, as evinced by her last name, always says no.[9] The series premiered on April 19, 2009,[9] but was canceled after only four episodes due to low ratings and less than favorable reviews. Thompson provided the voice for the LeBron James puppet in Nike's MVP "Most Valuable Puppets" commercials, which were produced to be shown throughout the 2009 NBA Playoffs. Thompson also guest starred on the USA Network series Psych in the fourth season episode "High Top Fade Out". He played an estranged college singing buddy of the character Gus. In 2011, he returned to Nickelodeon, as he guest starred in "iParty with Victorious", a crossover episode of TV sitcoms iCarly and Victorious. Thompson appeared as a host of sorts of TeenNick's 1990s programming block, The '90s Are All That, appearing in many of the block's early bumpers and hyping material. He would return to the block, now called NickRewind but at the time called The Splat, for All That's 22nd anniversary, with segments filmed at the 2015 New York Comic-Con.[10] In 2015, movie ticketing website Fandango announced that Thompson would play their brand character, Miles Mouvay. Thompson would play Mouvay in 18 videos, eight 30-second commercials, and a few comedic skits.[11] On September 23, 2015, Thompson appeared on The Tonight Show Starring Jimmy Fallon alongside former All That co-star Kel Mitchell in which they reprised their popular Good Burger roles as "Ed" and "Lester Oakes, Construction Worker". They later competed against one another in an episode of the revived Nickelodeon game show Double Dare that aired in November 2018.[12] In 2019, Thompson served as a judge for NBC's comedy competition series Bring the Funny.[13] He also became an executive producer with Mitchell for Nickelodeon's All That revival, premiering in June.[14] In May 2019, NBC announced they had picked up Thompson's single-camera comedy The Kenan Show to series. The series, retitled Kenan, premiered in 2021 and features Thompson as a newly-widowed father determined to be a "super dad".[15] In 2020, he became the spokesman for Universal Parks & Resorts’ "Let Yourself Woah" campaign,[16] and was set to host the 2020 White House Correspondents' Dinner before it was cancelled due to the COVID-19 pandemic.[17] In 2021, Thompson's namesake show, Kenan, premiered on NBC. He would also be named host of that year's Nickelodeon Kids' Choice Awards.[18] For his role on Kenan, he has been nominated for the Primetime Emmy Award for Outstanding Lead Actor in a Comedy Series, in 2021. Thompson returned to sketch comedy when he joined the cast of Saturday Night Live in 2003, becoming the show's first cast member born after its 1975 premiere.[19] According to Thompson he had previously sent an audition tape to SNL multiple times with them claiming he looked too young, with him noting "it was a couple years’ worth of that".[7] A fan of the show before joining, Thompson noted that he feared that being on the show was a "disservice" to it stating "It was weird for me for a long time".[7] Thompson was a featured player until 2005 (spanning the 29th and 30th seasons) and was promoted to repertory player at the beginning of season 31 (the 2005–2006 season). In 2013, he refused to play any more black women on the show and demanded SNL hire black women instead.[20][21] Thompson has been a cast member on SNL for 18 years, breaking the record for the longest-tenured cast member in the show's history previously held by Darrell Hammond, who was on the show for 14 years. Thompson became the most senior cast member in the second half of the 2013–14 season, following the departure of Seth Meyers. He is also the longest-serving African-American cast member, surpassing Tim Meadows, who stayed on the show for ten seasons, and is also the oldest current cast member.[22] Thompson also holds the record for most celebrity impressions performed on the show, performing 139, beating Hammond's previous record of 107.[23] Although early on he planned to stay on the show until something else came along, by 2019 he noted that SNL was his "forever plan".[24][25] Thompson has been nominated for four Primetime Emmys for his work on SNL, winning once. He has thrice been nominated for Outstanding Supporting Actor in a Comedy Series, in 2018, 2020 and 2021. For co-writing the song "Last Christmas", in 2017 he was nominated for Outstanding Original Music and Lyrics, an award he then won in 2018 for the lyrics to Come Back Barack (along with Chris Redd and Will Stephen).[26] In 2014, SNL head writer Brian H. Tucker noted that simply putting "KENAN REACTS" would get a script more laughs, further elaborating, "Put him in your sketch somewhere, anywhere, and your sketch will get better. Because Kenan knows how to take ordinary lines and make them funny, and take funny lines and make them special."[27] Similarly, Lorne Michaels in a 2019 article would refer to Thompson as "the person I most rely on in the cast".[25] Vulture referred to him as the "heir apparent" to Phil Hartman, both being "the glue" of their respective casts.[28] Thompson's celebrity impressions on SNL include Al Sharpton, Whoopi Goldberg, Bill Cosby, Charles Barkley, David Ortiz, OJ Simpson, and Steve Harvey on the recurring Family Feud sketch.[29] Thompson married model Christina Evangeline[30] on November 11, 2011.[31] Together, they have two daughters, Georgia, born June 20, 2014,[32][33] and Gianna, born August 2, 2018.[34]  ^1 Thompson stood in for Cowell, who was still recovering from a back injury the previous week that required him to rest under medical observation.
Hardwick Hall in Derbyshire is an architecturally significant country house from the Elizabethan era, a leading example of the Elizabethan prodigy house. Built between 1590 and 1597 for Bess of Hardwick, it was designed by the architect Robert Smythson, an exponent of the Renaissance style. Hardwick Hall is one of the earliest examples of the English interpretation of this style, which came into fashion having slowly spread from Florence. Its arrival in Britain coincided with the period when it was no longer necessary or legal to fortify a domestic dwelling. After ownership for centuries by the Cavendish family and the line of the Earl of Devonshire and the Duke of Devonshire, ownership of the house was transferred to the Treasury in 1956 and then to the National Trust in 1959. The building was ruinous and required stabilisation and a subsequent restoration.[1] The Hall is fully open to the public and received 298,283 visitors in 2019.[2] Sited on a hilltop between Chesterfield and Mansfield, overlooking the Derbyshire countryside, Hardwick Hall was designed by Robert Smythson in the late 16th century. Ordered by Bess of Hardwick, Countess of Shrewsbury and ancestress of the Dukes of Devonshire, it was owned by her descendants until the mid-twentieth century. Bess of Hardwick was the richest woman in England after Queen Elizabeth I, and her house was conceived to be a conspicuous statement of her wealth and power. The windows are exceptionally large and numerous at a time when glass was a luxury, leading to the saying, "Hardwick Hall, more glass than wall."[3][4] The Hall's chimneys are built into the internal walls of the structure, in order to give more scope for huge windows without weakening the exterior walls. The house's design also demonstrated new concepts not only in domestic architecture, but also of a more modern way in which life was led within a great house. Hardwick was one of the first English houses where the great hall was built on an axis through the centre of the house, rather than at right angles to the entrance. Each of the three main storeys has a higher ceiling than the one below, the ceiling height being indicative of the importance of the rooms' occupants: least noble at the bottom and grandest at the top. A wide, winding, stone staircase leads up to the state rooms on the second floor; these rooms include one of the largest long galleries in any English house. There is also a tapestry-hung great chamber with a spectacular plaster frieze illustrating hunting scenes; the room has been little altered. Hardwick was but one of Bess's many houses. Each of her four marriages had brought her greater wealth. She was born in her father's manor house on the site of the later, now old Hall at Hardwick, which today is a ruin beside the 'new' hall. After Bess's death in 1608, the house passed to her son William Cavendish, 1st Earl of Devonshire. His great-grandson, William, was created 1st Duke of Devonshire in 1694. The Devonshires made Chatsworth, another of Bess's great houses, their principal seat. Hardwick thus was relegated to the role of an occasional retreat for hunting and sometime dower house. As a secondary home, it escaped the attention of modernisers and received few alterations after its completion. The famed political philosopher Thomas Hobbes died at the Hall in December 1679. For the previous four or five years, Hobbes had lived at Chatsworth House, also owned by William Cavendish, 1st Duke of Devonshire. Hobbes had been a friend of the family since 1608 when he first tutored William Cavendish.[5] After his death, many of Hobbes' manuscripts were found at Chatsworth House.[6] From the early 19th century, the antique atmosphere of Hardwick Hall was consciously preserved. A low, 19th-century service wing is fairly inconspicuous at the rear. In 1844, William Cavendish, 6th Duke of Devonshire published a book called Handbook to Chatsworth and Hardwick. It was privately printed and provided a history of the Cavendish family's two estates.[7] In 1950, the unexpected death of the 10th Duke of Devonshire, with the subsequent death duties (rated at 80%), caused the sale of many of the Devonshire assets and estates. At this time, Hardwick was occupied by Evelyn, Duchess of Devonshire, the widow of the 9th Duke. The decision was taken to hand the house over to HM Treasury in lieu of Estate Duty in 1956.[8] The Treasury transferred the house to the National Trust in 1959. The Duchess remained in occupation of the house until her death in 1960.[citation needed] Having done much, personally, to conserve the textiles in the house as well as reinstating the traditional rush matting, she was to be its last occupant.[9] Hardwick Hall contains a large collection of embroideries, mostly dating from the late 16th century, many of which are listed in the 1601 inventory. Some of the needlework on display in the house incorporates Bess's monogram "ES", and may have been worked on by Bess herself. There is a large amount of fine tapestry and furniture from the 16th and 17th centuries. A remarkable feature of the house is that much of the present furniture and other contents are listed in an inventory dating from 1601. The Sea Dog Table is an especially important piece from around 1600, and the Eglantine Table has an inlaid top of interest to musical historians. Hardwick is open to the public. It has a fine garden, including herbaceous borders, a vegetable and herb garden, and an orchard. The extensive grounds also contain Hardwick Old Hall, a slightly earlier house which was used as guest and service accommodation after the new hall was built. The Old Hall is now a ruin. It is administered by English Heritage on behalf of the National Trust and is also open to the public. Many of the Old Hall's major rooms were decorated with ambitious schemes of plasterwork, notably above the fireplaces. Remarkably, impressive fragments of these are still to be seen (protected by preservative coatings and rain-shields), though most of the building is unroofed. Both Hardwick Hall and the Old Hall are Grade I listed (the highest designation) by Historic England.[10][11] Dan Cruickshank, an historian specialising in architecture, selected the Hall in 2006 as one of his five choices for Britain's Best Buildings, a documentary series made by the BBC for television.[12] Innovative in its own time, it would serve, three centuries later, as a source of inspiration for the enormous Main Exhibition Building at the Philadelphia Centennial Exhibition of 1876. Hardwick Hall was an ideal model for a building which was intended to merge historicism with the large expanses of glass that had become de rigueur for the main exhibition halls at international expositions and fairs in the wake of the success of The Crystal Palace constructed for the 1851 London Exhibition.[13] In March 2012, a £6.5m restoration was completed; this included the addition of a large restaurant.[14] In December 2020, three years of additional restoration had been completed and further work was being planned.[15] Hardwick Hall was the setting for the 10-part BBC series Mistress of Hardwick, broadcast in 1972, which followed the life of Bess of Hardwick. Most of the episodes are now lost. Hardwick Hall was used in the Connections TV series to illustrate a long series of changes that occurred in home design as a result of the Little Ice Age.[3] Hardwick Hall was used to film the exterior scenes and some interior scenes of Malfoy Manor in Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows – Part 1.[16]
Nicolas Kim Coppola (born January 7, 1964),[2][3] known professionally as Nicolas Cage, is an American actor and filmmaker. Born into the Coppola family, Cage is the recipient of various accolades, including an Academy Award, a Screen Actors Guild Award, and a Golden Globe Award. During the early years of his career, Cage starred in a variety of films such as Rumble Fish (1983), Racing with the Moon (1984), Peggy Sue Got Married (1986), Raising Arizona (1987), Vampire's Kiss (1989), Wild at Heart (1990), Honeymoon in Vegas (1992), and Red Rock West (1993). During this period, John Willis' Screen World, Vol. 36 listed him as one of twelve Promising New Actors of 1984. For his performance in Leaving Las Vegas (1995), he won the Academy Award for Best Actor. He received his second Academy Award nomination for his performance as Charlie and Donald Kaufman in Adaptation (2002). He subsequently appeared in more mainstream films, such as The Rock (1996), Con Air (1997), City of Angels (1998), 8mm (1999), Windtalkers (2002), Lord of War (2005), The Wicker Man (2006), Bangkok Dangerous (2008) and Knowing (2009). He also directed the film Sonny (2002), for which he was nominated for Grand Special Prize at Deauville Film Festival. Cage owns the production company Saturn Films and has produced films such as Shadow of the Vampire (2000) and The Life of David Gale (2003). In October 1997, Cage was ranked No. 40 in Empire magazine's The Top 100 Movie Stars of All Time list, while the next year, he was placed No. 37 in Premiere's 100 most powerful people in Hollywood. In the 2010s, he starred in Kick-Ass (2010), Drive Angry (2011), Joe (2013), The Runner (2015), Dog Eat Dog (2016), Mom and Dad (2017), Mandy (2018) and Color Out of Space (2019). His participation in various film genres during this time increased his popularity and gained him a cult following.[4][5] Cage was born in Long Beach, California, to August Coppola, a professor of literature, and Joy Vogelsang, a dancer and choreographer. He was raised in a Catholic family. His father was of Italian descent and his mother was of German and Polish ancestry.[6][7][8] His paternal grandparents were composer Carmine Coppola and actress Italia Pennino, and his paternal great-grandparents were immigrants from Bernalda, Basilicata.[9] Through his father, he is a nephew of director Francis Ford Coppola and of actress Talia Shire, and the cousin of directors Roman Coppola and Sofia Coppola, film producer Gian-Carlo Coppola, and actors Robert Carmine and Jason Schwartzman.[10][11] Cage's two brothers are New York radio personality Marc "The Cope" Coppola and director Christopher Coppola. He attended Beverly Hills High School,[12] which is known for its many alumni who became entertainers. He aspired to act from an early age and also attended UCLA School of Theater, Film and Television. His first non-cinematic acting experience was in a school production of Golden Boy.[13] He said he started acting because he "wanted to be James Dean. I saw him in Rebel Without a Cause, East of Eden. Nothing affected me—no rock song, no classical music—the way Dean affected me in Eden. It blew my mind. I was like, 'That's what I want to do'."[14] At fifteen years old he tried to convince his uncle, Francis Ford Coppola, to give him a screen test, telling him "I'll show you acting." His outburst was met with "silence in the car".[15] By this stage of his career, Coppola had already directed Marlon Brando, Al Pacino, Gene Hackman and Robert De Niro. To avoid the appearance of nepotism as Coppola's nephew, he changed his name early in his career to Nicolas Cage, inspired in part by the Marvel Comics superhero Luke Cage.[16] Since his film debut with a minor role in Fast Times at Ridgemont High (1982), opposite Judge Reinhold and Sean Penn, Cage has appeared in a wide range of films, both mainstream and offbeat.[16] He auditioned for the role of Dallas Winston in his uncle's film The Outsiders, based on S.E. Hinton's novel, but lost to Matt Dillon.[17] He was also in Coppola's films Rumble Fish[18] and Peggy Sue Got Married.[19] Other Cage roles included appearances in the acclaimed 1987 romantic-comedy film Moonstruck, also starring Cher;[16] the Coen Brothers cult-classic comedy Raising Arizona;[16] David Lynch's 1990 film Wild at Heart;[16] Martin Scorsese's 1999 New York City paramedic drama Bringing Out the Dead;[16] and Ridley Scott's 2003 black comedy crime film Matchstick Men, in which he played a con artist with obsessive–compulsive disorder.[20] Cage has been nominated twice for an Academy Award, winning once for his performance as a suicidal alcoholic in Leaving Las Vegas.[16] His other nomination was for his portrayal of real-life screenwriter Charlie Kaufman and Kaufman's fictional twin Donald in Adaptation.[21] Despite these successes, most of his lower-profile films have performed poorly at the box office compared to his mainstream action/adventure roles. The suspense thriller 8mm (1999) is considered a cult film.[22] He took the lead role in the 2001 film Captain Corelli's Mandolin and learned to play the mandolin from scratch for the part.[23][24] He made his directorial debut with 2002's Sonny. In 2005, two films he headlined, Lord of War and The Weather Man,[25] failed to find a significant audience despite nationwide releases and good reviews for his performances.[26] The 2006 remake of The Wicker Man was very poorly reviewed, and failed to make back its $40 million budget.[27][28] The much-criticized Ghost Rider (2007), based on the Marvel Comics character, fared better, earning more than $45 million (the top earner) during its opening weekend and over $208 million worldwide through the weekend ending on March 25, 2007.[29] Also in 2007, he starred in Next, which shared the concept of a glimpse into an alternate timeline with Cage's film,[30] The Family Man (2000).[31] Most of Cage's movies that have achieved financial success were in the action/adventure genre. In his second-highest-grossing film to date, National Treasure, he plays an eccentric historian who goes on a dangerous adventure to find treasure hidden by the Founding Fathers of the United States.[32] Other action hits include The Rock, in which Cage plays a young FBI chemical weapons expert who infiltrates Alcatraz Island in the hope of neutralizing a terrorist threat,[33] Face/Off, a John Woo film where he plays both a hero and a villain,[34] and World Trade Center, director Oliver Stone's film about the September 11 attacks.[35] He had a small but notable role as the Chinese criminal mastermind Dr. Fu Manchu in Rob Zombie's fake trailer Werewolf Women of the S.S. from the B-movie double feature Grindhouse.[36] In November 2007, Cage was spotted backstage at a Ring of Honor wrestling show in New York City researching for the lead role for The Wrestler. However, Cage dropped out of production shortly afterward because he felt that he did not have enough time to prepare for the role and director Darren Aronofsky preferred Mickey Rourke for the lead role. Rourke would go on to receive an Academy Award nomination for his performance.[37][38] In an interview with slashfilm.com, Aronofsky said of Cage's decision to leave the film that "Nic was a complete gentleman, and he understood that my heart was with Mickey and he stepped aside. I have so much respect for Nic Cage as an actor and I think it really could have worked with Nic but ... you know, Nic was incredibly supportive of Mickey and he is old friends with Mickey and really wanted to help with this opportunity, so he pulled himself out of the race."[39] In 2008, Cage appeared as Joe, a contract killer who undergoes a change of heart while on a work outing in Bangkok, in the film Bangkok Dangerous. The film is shot by the Pang Brothers and has a distinctly South-East Asian flavor.[40] In 2009, Cage starred in the science fiction thriller Knowing, directed by Alex Proyas. In the film, he plays an MIT professor who examines the contents of a time capsule unearthed at his son's elementary school. Startling predictions found inside the capsule that has already come true lead him to believe that the world is going to end at the close of the week and that he and his son are somehow involved in the destruction.[41] The film received mainly negative reviews but was the box office winner on its opening weekend.[42] Also in 2009, Cage starred in the film The Bad Lieutenant: Port of Call New Orleans, directed by acclaimed German director Werner Herzog.[43] He portrayed a corrupt police officer with gambling, drug and alcohol addictions. The film was very well received by critics, holding a rating of 87% positive reviews on review aggregator website Rotten Tomatoes.[44] Cage was lauded for his performance, with Michael Phillips of the Chicago Tribune writing "Herzog has found his ideal interpreter, a performer whose truth lies deep in the artifice of performance: ladies and gentlemen, Nicolas Cage, at his finest."[45] This film reunited Cage with Eva Mendes, who played his love interest in Ghost Rider.[46] In 2010, Cage starred in the period piece Season of the Witch, playing a 14th-century knight transporting a girl accused of causing the Black Plague to a monastery, and The Sorcerer's Apprentice, in which he played the sorcerer.[47] In 2012, Cage reprised his role in Ghost Rider's sequel Ghost Rider: Spirit of Vengeance.[48] He voiced the character Grug Crood in the animated film The Croods, which was released in 2013. The Croods received positive reviews from critics and was a box office success grossing $585 million against a budget of $135 million.[49] In the same year he starred as main character in The Frozen Ground, a thriller crime drama film directed and written by Scott Walker in his directorial debut, based on the crimes of real-life Alaskan serial killer Robert Hansen:[50] The film depicts an Alaskan State Trooper, played by Cage, seeking to apprehend Hansen by partnering with a young woman, who escaped from Hansen's clutches. The film has received mixed reviews though Cage's performance was cited as a highlight and solid.[51][52] In 2013 he also starred in Joe, an independent crime drama film directed and co-produced by David Gordon Green, adaptation from Larry Brown's 1991 novel of the same name. In this film Nicolas Cage is a tormented man who hires a 15-year-old boy (played by Tye Sheridan) and protects him from his abusive father. The film premiered at the 70th Venice International Film Festival on August 30, 2013,[53][54] with a subsequent screening at the 2013 Toronto International Film Festival.[55] It was a box office flop, grossing only $2.36 million from a $4 million budget, but received critical acclaim from critics, who praised Cage's performance and Green's direction. The 2016 black comedy Dog Eat Dog, Cage's second film with Paul Schrader, reunited him with Willem Dafoe (after Wild at Heart) as a pair of ex-convicts hired to kidnap a baby.[56] The film had its premiere as the closing entry for the Directors' Fortnight section at the 2016 Cannes Film Festival on May 20, 2016.[57] It was released on November 4, 2016 in the United States.[58] Peter Bradshaw of The Guardian gave the film 4 out of 5 stars, writing, "It's the right director for the right project and the result is Schrader's best for years: a lairy, nasty, tasty crime thriller built on black-comic chaos."[59] Todd McCarthy of The Hollywood Reporter wrote, "A rare film to have been shot in Cleveland, Dog Eat Dog definitely looks like it was shot on the cheap but puts what it needs to up on the screen with vigor and wit."[60] Cage starred alongside Selma Blair and Anne Winters in Brian Taylor's horror comedy film, Mom and Dad,[61] which premiered in the Midnight Madness section at the 2017 Toronto International Film Festival. It was released in theaters on January 19, 2018,[62][63] and received positive reviews from critics, with review aggregator Rotten Tomatoes defining his performance as "over-the-top."[64] Director John Waters appreciated the film, naming Mom and Dad as one of the best movies of 2018, placing it fourth on his personal top list.[65] In 2018, Cage starred in the action thriller film, Mandy,[66] which premiered on January 19 at the 2018 Sundance Film Festival.[67] Nick Allen of RogerEbert.com praised the movie, writing that "for all of the endless feral performances that Cage has given, in movies good, bad and forgettable, Cosmatos' style-driven, '80s-tastic passion for weird worlds and characters takes full advantage of Cage's greatness, and then some."[68] In October, Mandy's producer Elijah Wood announced the intention to sizing up an Oscar campaign for Nicolas Cage and for composer Jóhann Jóhannsson (who died in February of that year)[69] but the film was disqualified because it was also released on VOD[clarification needed] on September 14.[70][71][72][73] Later that year, Cage voiced Superman in the animated film Teen Titans Go! To the Movies. He had originally been slated to portray Superman in Tim Burton's canceled Superman film, Superman Lives, in the 1990s.[74] He also voiced Peter Parker / Spider-Man Noir in Spider-Man: Into the Spider-Verse (2018). Cage based his character, a dark and monochromatic alternate version of Peter Parker from a 1930s universe, on the films of Humphrey Bogart, specifically the voices of actors from that era such as James Cagney and Edward G. Robinson.[75] On January 28, 2019, Viktor and Irina Yelchin premiered a documentary about their son Anton Yelchin, Love, Antosha, at the 2019 Sundance Film Festival.[76] The documentary was directed by Garret Price and contains various interviews with some of Anton's friends and collaborators like Kristen Stewart, J. J. Abrams, Chris Pine, Jennifer Lawrence, Jodie Foster, John Cho and Martin Landau. Cage starred as the Narrator of the film, reading various Anton's writings.[77] In December 2018, it was announced that Cage had signed to play the lead role for Richard Stanley's Color Out of Space, based on the short story "The Colour Out of Space" by H. P. Lovecraft.[78][79] This was Stanley's first feature film directed since his firing from The Island of Dr. Moreau (1996).[80] Color Out of Space premiered on September 7, 2019 in the Midnight Madness portion of the 2019 Toronto International Film Festival, where Cage was awarded for his role with the Creative Coalition's Spotlight Initiative Award.[81][82] Following select preview screenings on January 22, the film was released in 81 theaters in the United States on January 24, 2020.[83] In November 2019, Cage was cast as a fictionalized version of himself in the comedy-drama The Unbearable Weight of Massive Talent, co-starring Pedro Pascal and Tiffany Haddish.[84][85] In May 2020 it was announced that Cage would be playing the role of Joe Exotic in a scripted eight-episode Tiger King series, written and executive produced by Dan Lagana.[86] In April 2013, DreamWorks Animation announced a sequel to the film The Croods.[87] In September 2013, it was confirmed that Nicolas Cage would reprise his role in the sequel as Grug from the first film.[88] The Croods: A New Age, directed by Joel Crawford, was released theatrically in the United States on November 25, 2020. Cage produced and starred in the 2021 film Pig, and received critical acclaim for his performance. [89] Cage made his directorial debut in 2002 with Sonny, a low-budget drama starring James Franco as a male prostitute whose mother (Brenda Blethyn) serves as his pimp. Cage had a small role in the film, which received poor reviews and a short run in a limited number of theaters.[16][90] Cage's producing career includes Shadow of the Vampire, the first effort from Saturn Films.[91] In early December 2006, Cage announced at the Bahamas International Film Festival that he planned to curtail his future acting endeavors to pursue other interests. On The Dresden Files for the Sci-Fi Channel, Cage is listed as the executive producer.[92] Cage, an avid comic book fan, auctioned a collection of 400 vintage comics through Heritage Auctions for over $1.6 million in 2002.[93] In 2007, he created a comic book with his son Weston, called Voodoo Child, which was published by Virgin Comics.[94] Cage is a fan and collector of painter and underground comic artist Robert Williams. He has written introductions for Juxtapoz magazine and purchased the painting Death on the Boards.[95] In February 2011, Cage said that, at a certain point in his career, he realized that he had developed his own method of acting, which he described as "Nouveau Shamanic." He noted, "at some point I'll have to write a book" about it.[97] Cage later explained that he drew the inspiration for the name from the book The Way of the Actor by Brian Bates, in which he read about the parallel between the ancient shamans and thespians.[98] In other interviews, Cage defined his acting style using terms such as German Expressionism[99] or "Western kabuki".[100] On some occasions, Cage stood up for his extreme method acting. For Birdy, in order to physically feel the pain of his character (a veteran from Vietnam War), Cage removed two teeth without any anesthesia. He also spent five weeks with his face wrapped in bandages, receiving brutal reactions by various people for his aspect. When he took the bandages off, his skin was infected because of acne and ingrowing hairs.[101] Vampire's Kiss' casting director Marcia Shulman declared that Cage asked to have hot yogurt poured over his toes to get excited during a love scene with Jennifer Beals.[102] He also studied Brazilian jiu-jitsu under the UFC champion Royce Gracie, for his roles in action films.[103] During an interview of 2013 for promoting Joe, Cage revealed that he followed a diet based on red meat and steaks to gain weight for the role and to identify himself as a carnivore.[104] According to The Guardian film critic Luke Buckmaster, "any casual observer can see that Cage is entertaining, charismatic and wildly flamboyant". Attributing it partly to the "well-cultured" background of Cage's family, Buckmaster said the actor "is clearly attracted to grotesque characters and is celebrated for his wild and unhinged approach to them. He has the presence of a leading man, and the eccentricities of a character actor." Actor Ethan Hawke stated in 2013 that Cage is "the only actor since Marlon Brando that's actually done anything new with the art", crediting him for taking film audiences "away from an obsession with naturalism into a kind of presentation style of acting that I imagine was popular with the old troubadours."[105] Film director David Lynch described him as "the jazz musician of American acting".[96] Many critics have accused Cage of overacting.[96] Others, including Cage himself, have described his intentionally extreme performances as "mega-acting".[106][107] After the actor's series of mainstream-marketed thriller films during the late 1990s, Sean Penn told The New York Times in 1999 that Cage was "no longer an actor" but "more like a performer".[108] Despite this, in his speech after winning the Oscar for his performance in Mystic River, Penn described Cage's work (in Matchstick Men) as one of the best performances of 2003.[109] During the 2010s, a growing number of film critics have described Cage as one of the most underrated actors of his generation.[110][111][112] In July 2021, Cage told Variety that the commercial constraints that were imposed on his performances was the main reason he abandoned Hollywood and that he opted to work for low-budget independent films because it gave him more freedom to experiment and be fluid.[113] In 1988, Cage began dating actress Christina Fulton, with whom he had a son, Weston Coppola Cage (born December 26, 1990). Weston has been involved in two black metal bands, and appeared in his father's film Lord of War as a helicopter mechanic. Through Weston, Cage has two grandsons born in 2014 and 2016.[114] Cage has been married five times. His first wife was actress Patricia Arquette (married in April 1995, divorce finalized in 2001).[115] Cage's second marriage was to singer and songwriter Lisa Marie Presley, daughter of Elvis Presley. Cage is an Elvis fan and used the star as the base of his performance in Wild at Heart. Presley and Cage married on August 10, 2002, and filed for divorce 107 days later on November 25, 2002. The divorce was finalized on May 16, 2004.[116] Cage's third wife is Alice Kim. They were married at a private ranch in northern California on July 30, 2004.[117] She gave birth to their son, Kal-El (after Superman's birth name), on October 3, 2005.[118] The couple separated in January 2016[119] and finalized their divorce later that year. In March 2019, Cage married Erika Koike in Las Vegas, only to file for annulment four days later.[120] In June 2019, Cage was granted a divorce from Koike.[121] On February 16, 2021, Cage married for the fifth time, to his Japanese girlfriend Riko Shibata.[122] Cage grew up in a family of Catholic background, but does not talk about religion publicly and refuses to answer religion-connected questions in his interviews.[7] When asked about the film Knowing being a religion-themed film or not, Cage replied, "Any of my personal beliefs or opinions runs the risk of impinging on your own relationship with the movie. I feel movies are best left enigmatic, left raising more questions than answers. I don't want to ever preach. So [whatever you get] from the movie [is] far more interesting than [anything] I could ever offer."[123] During his visit to University of California, Santa Cruz he stated that he is not a politically active actor and that he can do it in his work as he learned "more about nuclear power from the movie The China Syndrome".[124] Cage endorsed Andrew Yang for president during the 2020 election.[125] Cage has been called one of the most generous stars in Hollywood.[126] He donated $2 million to Amnesty International for them to use to offer rehabilitation shelters, medical services and psychological and reintegration services to some of the 300,000 children forced to fight in conflicts across the world.[127] He has also donated $1 million to the victims of Hurricane Katrina.[128] He became the first artist to support ArtWorks, an artist engagement program to raise awareness of fundamental rights at work, including freedom from slavery and from child labor.[129] Cage has also been honored with Humanitarian award from United Nations for his works and appointed as an UN ambassador for Global Justice in 2009 and again in 2013.[130] He led a campaign around the film Lord of War to raise awareness about international arms control, supported "Heal the Bay," the United Negro College Fund efforts, and the Royal United Hospital's Forever Friends Appeal to build intensive care units for babies.[131][132] Nicolas Cage was once considered one of Hollywood's highest-paid actors, earning $40 million in 2009 according to Forbes, although he failed to make Forbes' Top 10 List in 2014.[133][134] Cage had a Malibu home where he and Kim lived, but sold the property in 2005 for $10 million. In 2004 he bought a property on Paradise Island, Bahamas. In May 2006, he bought a 40-acre (16 ha) island in the Exuma archipelago, some 85 miles (137 km) southeast of Nassau and close to a similar island owned by Faith Hill and Tim McGraw.[135] He bought the medieval castle Schloss Neidstein in the Oberpfalz region in Germany in 2006 and sold it in 2009 for $2.5 million. His grandmother was German, living in Cochem an der Mosel.[136] In August 2007, Cage purchased "Grey Craig," a 24,000-square-foot (2,200 m2) brick-and-stone country manor in Middletown, Rhode Island. With an estate occupying 26 acres (11 ha), the home has 12 bedrooms and 10 full bathrooms and overlooks the Atlantic Ocean. It borders the Norman Bird Sanctuary to the west. The sale ranked among the state of Rhode Island's most expensive residential purchases.[137][138] Also in 2007, Cage purchased Midford Castle in Somerset, England.[139][140] Shortly after selling his German castle, Cage also put his homes in Rhode Island, Louisiana, Nevada, and California, as well as a $7 million island in the Bahamas, on the market.[141] On July 14, 2009, the Internal Revenue Service filed documents in New Orleans in connection with a federal tax lien against property owned by Cage in Louisiana, concerning unpaid federal taxes. The IRS alleges that Cage failed to pay over $6.2 million in federal income tax for the year 2007.[142] In addition, the Internal Revenue Service has another lien for more than $350,000 in unpaid taxes dating from 2002 to 2004.[143] Cage filed a $20 million lawsuit on October 16, 2009, against his business manager, Samuel J. Levin, alleging negligence and fraud.[144] The lawsuit states that Levin "had failed to pay taxes when they were due and had placed [Cage] in speculative and risky real estate investments 'resulting in (the actor) suffering catastrophic losses.'"[144] Cage is also facing separate lawsuits from East West Bank[145] and Red Curb Investments for unpaid, multi-million dollar loans. Samuel Levin filed a counter-complaint and responded to the lawsuit in a filing stating that he warned Cage that he was living beyond his means and urged him to spend less. Levin's filing states that "instead of listening to Levin, cross-defendant Cage (Coppola) spent most of his free time shopping for high ticket purchases, and wound up with 15 personal residences." Levin's complaint continued: "Likewise, Levin advised Coppola against buying a Gulfstream jet, against buying and owning a flotilla of yachts, against buying and owning a squadron of Rolls Royces, against buying millions of dollars in jewelry and art."[146] In his filing, Levin says that in 2007, Cage's "shopping spree entailed the purchase of three additional residences at a total cost of more than $33 million; the purchase of 22 automobiles (including 9 Rolls Royces); 12 purchases of expensive jewelry; and 47 purchases of artwork and exotic items."[146] One of those items was a dinosaur skull of a Tarbosaurus; after discovering that it was stolen, he has since returned it to the Mongolian authorities.[147] According to Cage, he owned the "Most Haunted House in America," a home located in the French Quarter of New Orleans, Louisiana.[148] Known as "The LaLaurie House" after its former owner Delphine LaLaurie, the house was foreclosed and sold at auction on November 12, 2009, along with another New Orleans property for a total of $5.5 million, in the wake of Cage's financial problems.[149] His Bel Air home, which had six loans totaling $18 million on it, failed to sell at an April 2010 foreclosure auction despite an opening offer of $10.4 million, substantially less than the $35 million that Cage had originally tried to sell it for. The home, built in 1940 for $110,000, had been owned at different times by Dean Martin and singer Tom Jones.[150] The home eventually sold in November 2010 for $10.5 million.[151] Another home in Nevada also faces foreclosure auction.[149] In November 2011, Cage also sold his Action Comics #1 in an online auction for a record-breaking $2.16 million (the previous record being $1.5 million), to assist paying his tax liens and other debts. Cage purchased the comic in 1997 for $110,000.[152] Now worth around $25 million (as of May 2017), Cage is reportedly "taking [film] roles left and right" in order to pay off his remaining debts.[1] Kathleen Turner wrote in her 2008 memoir, Send Your Roses, that Cage had stolen a chihuahua and was arrested twice for driving drunk while they filmed Peggy Sue Got Married.[153] Later she admitted Cage did not steal a chihuahua and she was sorry.[154][155] Cage won a libel action against Turner, her publisher Headline Publishing Group and Associated Newspapers (whose publication the Daily Mail had repeated the allegations when they published an excerpt from the book).[156] Christina Fulton sued Cage in December 2009 for $13 million and for the house in which she was living. The suit was in response to an order that she leave the dwelling; the order resulted from Cage's financial difficulties.[157] The case was settled in June 2011.[158] Cage was arrested in New Orleans' French Quarter district on April 15, 2011 for suspicion of domestic abuse battery, disturbing the peace and public intoxication. A police officer was flagged down by onlookers after Cage allegedly grabbed his wife's upper arm while appearing to be under the influence of alcohol.[159] Cage was held in police custody until a bail of $11,000 was posted by Duane "Dog" Chapman.[160] He was later ordered to appear in court on May 31, 2011.[161] The New Orleans District Attorney announced that the charges against Cage had been dropped on May 5, 2011.[162][163] For his contributions to the film industry, Cage was inducted into the Hollywood Walk of Fame in 1998 with a motion pictures star located at 7021 Hollywood Boulevard.[164][165] In May 2001, Cage was awarded an Honorary Doctorate in Fine Arts by California State University, Fullerton. He spoke at the commencement ceremony.[166] Cage has also been nominated for an Academy Award twice. He won an Academy Award for Best Actor for his role in the film Leaving Las Vegas in 1995. He was nominated for a second one for his role in the film Adaptation in 2002.[167] He also won a Golden Globe award, Screen Actors Guild award and many more awards for Leaving Las Vegas. He has received nominations by the Golden Globe, Screen Actors Guild and BAFTA for his films Adaptation, Honeymoon in Vegas and Moonstruck.[168] He has also won and been nominated for many other awards.
Hurricane Grace was a short-lived Category 2 hurricane that contributed to the formation of the powerful 1991 Perfect Storm. Forming on October 26, Grace initially had subtropical origins, meaning it was partially tropical and partially extratropical in nature. It became a tropical cyclone on October 27, and ultimately peaked with winds of 105 mph (165 km/h). The storm had minor effects on the island of Bermuda as it passed to the south. A developing extratropical storm to the north turned Grace eastward; the hurricane was eventually absorbed into the large circulation of the larger low-pressure system.[1] Fed by the contrast between cold air to the northwest and warm air from the remnants of Grace, this storm became a large and powerful nor'easter that caused extremely high waves and resulted in severe coastal damage along the East Coast of the United States. The origins of Grace go back to a mid-level area of low pressure that formed on October 23 to the south of Bermuda. Reports from a nearby ship indicated that the low had become a surface feature by October 25. The storm system initially contained subtropical characteristics, and the center of circulation lacked deep convection for several days. The system was designated a subtropical storm on October 26. An area of clouds near Bermuda became increasingly convective, and gradually became entrained into the expanding and developing circulation of the subtropical storm. Thunderstorm activity persisted near the center, and on October 27, the storm attained tropical storm status and was named Grace.[2] Grace continued to organize and intensify; based on satellite intensity estimates and reconnaissance reports, the storm was upgraded to a Category 1 hurricane, the lowest level on the Saffir–Simpson hurricane scale.[3] Grace reached its peak intensity with winds of 105 mph (165 km/h) and a minimum central barometric pressure of 980 mbar (hPa; 28.94 inHg), ranking as a Category 2.[4] Operationally, however, the peak intensity was thought to have been 75 mph (120 km/h), which would have made it a mere Category 1 at its peak strength.[5] The hurricane tracked generally northwestward until October 28, when an extratropical cyclone formed along an approaching cold front off the New England coast. This storm rapidly intensified and influenced Grace's steering currents, turning the hurricane sharply east.[6] At around the same time, an eye feature associated with Hurricane Grace became apparent on satellite imagery, despite a lack of strong convective activity around the storm's center.[7] Grace accelerated as it continued eastward, and reached its peak intensity of Category 2 status on October 29. However, the storm's rapid forward movement led to an asymmetrical circulation. The center passed approximately 50 mi (80 km) south of Bermuda without significantly affecting the island.[3] Hurricane Grace turned northeast later that day, as the rapidly approaching extratropical storm undermined the storm's lower-level center. The system became overtaken by the frontal storm, and subsequently lost its status as a tropical system.[8] Afterward, Grace moved north along the front and merged with the large cyclone to the north.[6] The remnants of Grace became completely indistinguishable by the next day, as it was completely absorbed by the passing extratropical storm on October 30.[9] The nor'easter significantly strengthened as a result of the temperature contrast between the cold air to the northwest and the warmth and humidity associated with the remnants of Hurricane Grace. The low-pressure system continued deepening as it drifted southeastward and then southwestward towards the United States. The cyclone attained its peak intensity 390 miles (630 km) south of Halifax, Nova Scotia, as a Category 1 hurricane, with sustained winds of 75 mph (120 km/h). The storm became commonly known as "The Perfect Storm".[6][9] In advance of Hurricane Grace, a tropical storm warning was issued for Bermuda on October 27. The following day, about 10 hours before the storm's closest approach to the island, the tropical storm warning was upgraded to a hurricane warning. On October 29, the hurricane warning was lowered to a tropical storm warning, which was amended to a gale warning shortly thereafter.[4][10] The island experienced bands of squally weather in association with the storm.[11] Precipitation peaked at 3.21 in (82 mm).[12] However, no significant damage was reported.[8] A yacht traveling from Bermuda to New York encountered strong winds and 25 ft (7.6 m) seas well off the Virginia coast; its nine occupants were rescued by Coast Guard helicopters.[13][14] Because of its large size, Grace generated large swells along the East Coast of the United States,[8] combined with abnormally high tides; these waves reached at least 15 ft (4.6 m). Despite minor beach erosion, no substantial property damage occurred, although Carolina Beach, North Carolina, lost about 1 ft (0.30 m) of sand.[15] Despite the light impacts from Hurricane Grace, the resultant nor'easter caused extensive coastal damage, high seas, and powerful winds. Hurricane-force wind gusts were reported in New England. The storm churned the ocean for several days; a wave 101 ft (31 m) in height was reported by an offshore buoy. Extensive coastal flooding occurred along the coast of the Mid-Atlantic and Northeastern U.S., with effects as far north as Newfoundland and as far south as Jamaica. The nor'easter eventually transitioned into another hurricane that made landfall in Nova Scotia.[6] A ship known as the Andrea Gail was lost, along with her six crew members, during the storm. The story of the Andrea Gail inspired Sebastian Junger's 1997 book, The Perfect Storm, and a 2000 motion picture film.[9]
Grisaille (/ɡrɪˈzaɪ/ or /ɡrɪˈzeɪl/; French: grisaille, lit. 'greyed' [ɡʁizaj], from gris 'grey') is a painting executed entirely in shades of grey or of another neutral greyish colour.[1] It is particularly used in large decorative schemes in imitation of sculpture. Many grisailles include a slightly wider colour range, like the Andrea del Sarto fresco illustrated. Paintings executed in brown are referred to as brunaille, and paintings executed in green are called verdaille.[2] A grisaille may be executed for its own sake, as underpainting for an oil painting (in preparation for glazing layers of colour over it), or as a model for an engraver to work from. "Rubens and his school sometimes use monochrome techniques in sketching compositions for engravers."[3] Full colouring of a subject makes many more demands of an artist, and working in grisaille was often chosen as being quicker and cheaper, although the effect was sometimes deliberately chosen for aesthetic reasons. Grisaille paintings resemble the drawings, normally in monochrome, that artists from the Renaissance on were trained to produce; like drawings they can also betray the hand of a less talented assistant more easily than a fully coloured painting. Giotto used grisaille in the lower registers of his frescoes in the Scrovegni Chapel in Padua (c.  1304) and Robert Campin, Jan van Eyck and their successors painted grisaille figures on the outsides of the wings of triptychs, including the Ghent Altarpiece. Originally these were the sides on display for most of the time, as the doors were normally kept closed except on feast days or at the (paid) request of tourists. However today these images are often invisible in museums when the tryptych is displayed open and flat against a wall. In these cases imitation of sculpture was intended; sculpture was still more expensive than a painting - even one by an acknowledged master. Limners had often produced illuminated manuscripts in pen and wash with a very limited colour-range, and many artists such as Jean Pucelle ( active c. 1320-1350) and Matthew Paris specialised in such work, which had been especially common in England since Anglo-Saxon times. Renaissance artists such as Mantegna and Polidoro da Caravaggio often used grisaille as a classicising effect, either in imitation of the effect of a classical sculptured relief, or of Roman painting. In the Low Countries a continuous tradition of grisaille paintings can be traced from Early Netherlandish painting to Martin Heemskerck (1498-1574), Pieter Brueghel the Elder (Christ and the Woman Taken in Adultery, 1565) and Hendrik Goltzius, and through the copious output of Adriaen van de Venne, to the circle of Rembrandt, and Jan van Goyen. The ceiling frescoes of the Sistine Chapel have portions of the design in grisaille, as does the lower part of the great staircase decoration by Antonio Verrio (c. 1636 – 1707) at Hampton Court. Grisaille, while less widespread in the 20th Century, continues as an artistic technique. Pablo Picasso's painting Guernica (1937) is one example. Hugo Bastidas (1955- ), a contemporary American painter, has become known for black-and-white paintings that imitate the effect of grisaille and often resemble black-and-white photographs.[4] Bastidas' paintings frequently reference architecture, water, vegetation and art history, and reflect his concern about the human condition, globalization, and their effect on the Earth's well-being.[5] After returning to New York from a Fulbright Fellowship in his native Ecuador in the early 1990s, Bastidas began using a restricted color-palette of black and white.[4] His medium- and large-scale paintings allude to black-and-white photography, and feature contrasting zones of high and low detail.[4][6] By making thousands of marks with a size No. 1 hog's bristle brush on linen primed with rabbit-skin glue, Bastidas achieves a high level of image definition.[4][7] He also works in digital photography, which informs his subject matter without rendering a photo-realistic effect.[8] With the 20th century's emphasis on direct (alla prima) painting, the grisaille technique lost favour with artists of the period. This historic method is still incorporated into the curriculum of some private ateliers.[9] The term is also applied to monochrome painting in other media such as enamels, where an effect similar to a relief in silver may be intended. It is common in stained glass, where the need for sections in different colours was thereby greatly reduced. Portions of a window may be done in grisaille – using, for example, silver stain or vitreous paint – while other sections are done in coloured glass.
Mission to Horatius is a novel based on the American science fiction television series Star Trek: The Original Series. It was published in 1968 by Whitman, and was the first original novel based on the series; the first novel for adult audiences, Spock Must Die!, was not published until February 1970. Mission to Horatius details the adventures of the crew of the U.S.S. Enterprise investigating where a distress signal had originated, resulting in them engaging with several different human colonies. The novel was written by Mack Reynolds, and was Whitman's only original fiction based on the series. The producers of Star Trek had issues with the book, as they were concerned that it was dull and poorly written, in addition to containing offensive descriptions of both Sulu and Uhura. Gene Roddenberry intervened, stating that he would rather call off the publishing deal than see the property harmed. It was corrected, but Roddenberry was still dissatisfied with the novel. As Whitman had gone out of business years earlier, Pocket Books was able to re-publish the book in celebration of holding the Star Trek license for 20 years. The U.S.S. Enterprise is headed to Starbase 12 for shore leave, supplies and repairs. Food is running low and the engines need servicing. A distress signal diverts the ship to a solar system on the outer edge of explored space. Upon hearing of the emergency mission, Dr. McCoy expresses his concern about the mental health of the crew to Kirk. In Dr. McCoy's opinion, the Enterprise has been on patrol for such a long period of time that the crew is in danger of developing a form of space madness known as cafard. Upon reaching the NGC 400 solar system, the Enterprise crew comes across three planets populated by different human settlers who had been unhappy with the social or political order of Earth. One planet has reverted to a Stone Age state, another has a mid-20th Century technology while the third maintains a level of technology capable of space travel and advanced weaponry. Kirk and crew must determine who sent a distress signal and the nature of the emergency. Along the way, they encounter a warrior society, a planet where drugs are used to control the general population and a culture consisting of an elite class with clones handling the day-to-day chores required by society. The first works of fiction based in the Star Trek universe were the Star Trek comic books, which began publication in 1967. These were followed the same year by short story adaptations of the episodes of Star Trek published by Bantam Books and written by James Blish.[1][2]: xi  Mission to Horatius became the first original fiction published in novel form based on the Star Trek series when it was published in hardcover by Whitman in 1968, and the only original novel to be published while the original Star Trek was still being broadcast.[2]: xi  It was written by Mack Reynolds,[3]: 339  and illustrated by Sparky Moore.[4] Issues with the novelization were first raised with the producers of the television show by John Meredyth Lucas, who contacted both Desilu Business Affairs and Gene Roddenberry, warning them that the novel was "not technically in bad taste, but is extremely dull, and even considering the juvenile market, badly written".[3]: 339  He added that it contained several inaccuracies including describing Vulcans as Vulcanians,[5] and an issue with Spock quoting poetry. There were concerns that Sulu had been described as a "bland faced, small oriental" and that Uhura was called a "negress" and sings a spiritual. Roddenberry wrote of his concern with the project on November 14, 1967, to Desilu Business Affairs, saying that he agreed with Lucas' comments, and that Star Trek "is a valuable property worth protecting and I personally would rather blow a deal like this than see the property harmed."[3]: 340  Despite corrections, Roddenberry wrote a five-page dissection of "Mission to Horatius" describing what he felt was wrong with the novel. The first original Star Trek novel for adults, Spock Must Die!, was not published until February 1970.[6] While Whitman did not publish any other Star Trek novels,[2]: xi  it did publish a range of coloring books based on the series.[7] Mission to Horatius was reprinted as a facsimile edition by Pocket Books in February 1999 to ostensibly celebrate the publisher's 20th anniversary as a Star Trek licensee. Editor John J. Ordover stated, when interviewed for Jeff Ayers' Voyages of Imagination, that it was reprinted for fun, and that when pitched he had explained that Paramount Studios held the rights to the book as Whitman had gone out of business. He added "It was selling for $50 at conventions. So why not do a reissue? It was the first Star Trek novel ever done and the first one I read."[2]: 131  Pocket Books bought a second-hand copy from science fiction author Dayton Ward to complete the reproduction.[8] Most reviews are lukewarm although criticism of plot developments or characterizations are usually muted by an acknowledgment the book was aimed at younger readers.[according to whom?]
Fundulus zebrinus is a species of fish in the Fundulidae known by the common name plains killifish. It is native to North America, where it is distributed throughout the Mississippi River, Colorado River, and Rio Grande drainages, and other river systems; many of its occurrences represent introduced populations.[3] This fish grows up to about 6.9 centimeters long, with a maximum length of 8[4] to 10 centimeters.[5] Its lifespan is up to 3 years,[4] but most fish do not exceed two.[3] It has a flat head with a protruding jaw that allows it to feed at the water's surface. It is variable in color, being brown, black, greenish, or straw-colored, with paler yellowish or silvery coloration on the belly. The fish is striped with the 12 to 28 dark vertical bars[5] that give the species its scientific name, meaning "like a zebra".[4] The males have wider, darker bars than the females. The breeding male develops bright orange coloration on most of his fins.[5] This species feeds on chironomid larvae, copepods, nematodes, and other small animals.[6] It is also herbivorous.[3] It may feed by scooping up and swallowing mouthfuls of riverbed substrate to obtain buried food objects. The fish often spits out most of the sand and undigestible material,[5] but the digestive tract usually contains an amount of sand.[6] The fish eats mosquito larvae when available, and studies suggest it might be useful in mosquito abatement efforts.[7] The fish lives in a number of shallow river and stream habitat types. It may occur in lower, moderate and swift, turbid water flows.[3] It may be found in lakes.[5] It is tolerant of brackish, alkaline, and salty water, more so than most other local fish species.[4] It may bury itself in the substrate with only its eyes and mouth showing.[4] The fish might perform this behavior as a stress response, and it might serve to protect it from sunlight and heat, predators, or low water levels, or to help rid itself of parasites.[5] The killifish may face predation by other fish, notably the green sunfish (Lepomis cyanellus); where this predator occurs, killifish populations drop.[8] Spawning is associated with water temperature, usually occurring when the temperature exceeds 26 °C. Spawning season has been noted to start in April and continue through August.[5] A number of parasites have been observed on this species, including Myxosoma funduli, a myxozoan, a species of Trichodina, a protozoan, Urocleidus fundulus, a fluke, and Gyrodactylus bulbacanthus, a monogenean, all of which infest the gills. Also, the parasite Gyrodactylus stableri infests the fins and organisms of Neascus, a genus of flukes, infest the eye and internal tissues of the fish.[9] The monogenean gill parasite Salsuginus thalkeni was first described from the fish.[10] For a long time, fish of the closely related species Fundulus kansae were considered to be members of F. zebrinus, the names synonyms.[11] F. kansae was sometimes considered a subspecies of F. zebrinus.[12] Molecular and genetic studies supported the separation of the species.[13][14] F. zebrinus is slightly larger than F. kansae, with larger scales and larger eyes. The fins of the breeding male become more red in color, whereas the male F. kansae develops a more yellow-orange fin color.[15] This species has a wide range, mostly in the central United States. Its native range is mostly within the Great Plains. It includes much of the Mississippi River drainage, parts of the Colorado and Brazos Rivers, and some areas in the Rio Grande region, especially the Pecos River.[16] Its distribution was influenced by Pleistocene changes in the geography of the local river systems, such as glaciation.[14] Many occurrences of the fish represent introductions, such as populations at Lake Powell in Arizona and Utah, the Fort Peck Reservoir in Montana, and several tributaries of the Colorado River in Colorado, Utah, and Nevada. Some occurrences may or may not be native. Fish introductions began in earnest around the 1930s. Most introductions occurred when plains killifish were used as bait by anglers and escaped into the wild to establish new populations.[16] 
Suman Chakraborty is Professor in the Mechanical Engineering Department of the Indian Institute of Technology Kharagpur, India, and Sir J. C. Bose national Fellow. Currently, he is the Dean of Sponsored Research and Industrial Consultancy at the same Institute.[1] He was also formerly the Head, School of Medical Science and Technology (April 2015 to March 2019) and the Indian National Academy of Engineering Chair Professor (2014–16). He joined the Institute in the year 2002 as Assistant Professor, became Associate Professor in the year 2007. He became full Professor in the year 2008. Chakraborty did his schooling from St. Lawrence High School, Kolkata and then graduated from the Mechanical Engineering Department of Jadavpur University in the year 1996, securing 2nd Rank out of a pool of more than 100 students.[2] After a brief Industrial Experience on Engineering design at the Development Consultants Ltd., he appeared for the National level competitive examination on Graduate Aptitude Test for Engineering (GATE, 1997), in which he was nationally Ranked as the 1st.[citation needed] Subsequently, he joined the Indian Institute of Science(IISc) for his master's study, where he was the faculty topper (CGPA 7.9 out of 8) and received gold medal and Senate Commendation for outstanding performance in Masters of Engineering. Thereafter, he joined Jadavpur University as a lecturer. In 2000, he joined the IISc for his doctoral research, on study leave from Jadavpur University. He completed his Ph.D. thesis work in about one year at the IISc. His received “Best International CFD Thesis Award” in 2002.[3] Chakraborty has research interests in the area of microfluidics, miniaturization and micro/nano scale transport processes and is one among the scientists who introduced research in these fields in the Indian Academia towards the beginning of this century.[4][5] Chakraborty is known for his fundamental contributions in microfluidics and nanofluidics that have traversed all the way to the establishment of disruptive high-quality yet low-cost diagnostic technologies for community healthcare which have passed through rigorous patient trials, regulatory certification and have culminated in the form of real-life products being deployed to create positive transformations in the context good health and well-being of the underserved. Chakraborty's notable research contributions in microfluidics, nanofluidics and miniaturization include roughness-induced slippery flow in hydrophobic nanochannels in contrary to a presumably obvious stick, massive augmentation of electrically driven pumping in hydrophobic nanochannels, capillary-driven spreading of liquid water on atomistically designed hydrophobic surfaces, programmable electrical modulation of droplets in directions misaligned with the electric field, generating controlled microbubbles and droplets on a spinning disc, reversing thermally-driven motion of extremely tiny droplets – defying common scientific intuitions in all cases. Extending these findings on confined liquids to soft biological matters, he has subsequently uncovered unique bio-physical mechanism possibly responsible for anti-biotic resistance in critical infectious diseases. He has also introduced low-cost fabrication and analytical tools to probe blood flow dynamics in circulatory systems, including the mechanisms of collective dynamics of red blood cells in micro-vascular pathways. He has developed a tumour-on-a-chip technology for understanding elusive features of cancer progression and metastasis. He has introduced ‘Paper and Pencil Microfluidics’ - a new class of electrically-manipulative miniaturized devices that does not require any sophisticated fabrication technology unlike the other cutting-edge micro-chips. The backbone of this technology is a simple piece of paper cartridge that has pencil-sketched electrodes controlling fluid flow in printed channels. This has been the foundation of manufacturing low-cost medical diagnostic devices, as well as developing water purification and energy harvesting systems on simple paper strips. Extending this paradigm of spontaneous ion-water interaction in an interlaced fibrous cellulose network, his group has demonstrated electrical power generation in wet textiles, drawing analogies with water transport across the parts of a living plant. Demonstrating that on green field, they have shown that this electricity generation may be up-scaled massively by systematically drying a set of regular wearable garments under the sun-light, culminating into a utilitarian paradigm of low-cost power harvesting in extreme rural settings. Chakraborty has further established a pathway of translating high end laboratory research to remote and under-developed locations. His innovated blood glucose and haemoglobin measuring devices and several others, after rigorous clinical validation, have become the lifelines of existing rural healthcare centres, withstanding extreme dirt, dust, humidity and rugged conditions where most of the high-end medical devices do not function. His research team has developed a miniaturized blood perfusion imaging device for screening of oral pre-cancer and cancer, circumventing the obvious clinical constraints of traditional laser Doppler or laser speckle perfusion imagers. This device has successfully passed clinical trial for early diagnostics of oral cancer. Beyond the ambit of technology development alone, he has provided leadership in establishing a common research and technology hub (CRTDH) on affordable healthcare under the support of the Department of Scientific and Industrial Research, Ministry of Science and Technology, Government of India, where his own innovated products are being manufactured by micro, medium and small scale entrepreneurs for deployment in extreme rural locations. The COVID-19 pandemic has been rudely exposing the challenges due to non-availability of diagnostic technologies that are accurate yet low cost, accessible, user-friendly and amenable to massive manufacturing scale-up and parallelization. The COVIRAP test, essentially a new Piecewise Isothermal Nucleic Acid Test (PINAT) innovated by his research team, has offered a value proposition by offering test results of nucleic-acid based diagnostics quality but devoid of any laboratory procedure such as RNA extraction, achieving direct swab/ saliva to result integration in an ultra-low cost user friendly device platform. The value proposition of this is reflective of a globally-disseminative technology transfer as a first highly accurate ultra-low cost point-of-care nucleic acid based test having the simplicity and user-friendliness of a common rapid test. Such amalgamated fusion of advanced scientific premises of extremely sensitive and specific diagnostic technologies in the format of an affordable rapid testing paradigm, streamlined with the United Nation’s goal of sustainable development, is premised to eradicate any differential consideration between the rich and the poor, and promote well-being and community healthcare for the underserved in resource-limited settings. Chakraborty has published 480+ papers in international journals of high repute. Around 40 Ph.D. students have graduated working under his supervision .[6] He has authored several text books and edited several research monographs. He has also developed several video lecture courses, under the National Programme on Technology Enhanced Learning.[7][8] Chakraborty has also been the Editor / Editorial Board Member of leading Journals in his field of expertise, including Scientific Reports. He received the prestigious Santi Swaroop Bhatnagar Prize,[9] and became the youngest Fellow of the Indian National Academy of Engineering, and Fellows of the Indian National Science Academy (INSA), Indian Academy of Sciences (IAS), Indian National Academy of Science (NASI), in addition of being the recipient of the Indo-US Research Fellowship, Scopus Young Scientist Award given by Elsevier for high citations on his research publications, Alexander von Humboldt Fellowship (2005), and Young Scientist/ Young Engineer Award from various National Academies. He has been bestowed with the Fellowship of the American Physical Society,[10] Fellowship of the Royal Society of Chemistry, and Fellowship of the American Society of Mechanical Engineers.[11] He was a visiting professor at Stanford University.[12] He has been selected for the 30th GD Birla Award for Scientific Research for his outstanding contribution to engineering science and its applications in developing technologies for affordable healthcare.[13] Chakraborty has received research funding from various Government and Private bodies, including International funding agencies (such as the British Council, Royal Academy of Engineering UK, Indo-US Science and Technology Forum, JSPS, Japan etc.).[14] He has spearheaded the Healthcare domain of IMPRINT India initiative as the National coordinator. He has also been a consultant to Industrial Houses such as General Motors, Delphi, INTEL, SHELL, Tata Steel, ITC, to name a few.[15] He has also led his own start-up company to effectively translate his research into the design of medical products. The objective of his company is to bring out novel devices for low-cost medical diagnostics and foster a healthy life for all those who have been deprived of even the basic amenities and facilities of primary healthcare over the years.